Besides mapping, how about programs? Were there
any industrial programs that you instituted? No.
Shortly after I got here, I realized that this was
essentially a fire outfit. Nothing else really
counted. Sort of piddled around with a nursery,
too.
I thought, well, what do we need here in the
organization is a man who knows something about
silviculture.
And, of course, I was biased about that because
that was one of the subjects I taught at LSU. So I
contacted a man who at one time worked with me on a
project over in Louisiana by the name of Vaux, who
later became head of the School of Forestry at the
University of California at Berkeley. And I asked
him whether he could suggest someone who might be
interested in coming to the South, who has had a
good basis in silviculture and plant physiology.
He recommended somebody. We had an interview. He
was employed. And that's how we got started. I'd
say one of my principal accomplishments here,
research in tree improvement. Okay, now this is
later, because you said a while ago, you know, in
initial parts you got rid of a kind of a useless
silvicultural program. And so what, then you
waited until you had more money in your budget to be
able to operate this time? Well, got a little more
money, and I got enough money to employ this fellow
as a silviculturist. Now, he was in the management
department. He wasn't... Still no silvicultural
research. No, no. As a matter of fact, there still
isn't any silvicultural research per se. There is
research in tree improvement in the forest
management department. Now, you say I'm
nitpicking? No, no. I can understand it, though.
Okay. I think. Because with a very limited... and
the Texas Forest Service has, it should be engaged
in only that sort of research that isn't
obtainable elsewhere. And this was the first
research in tree improvement in the whole South.
As a matter of fact, almost in the whole nation. The
only other place that it was being done was on a very
limited scale in the Lake States and out in
California. The Nelson, I mean the Eddy Tree
Breeding Station. Maybe you'll run across that or
have, but... No, I have avoided, for the most part,
real technical things that I don't understand.
Okay. I've avoided them because if I run across it,
the only thing that I can ever read that I've read
about that was of any research value was done by
accident, and it was planting slash pines in 1926,
and lo and behold, those things grew fast, and they
noticed it, and were able somehow to convince
industry. I guess... I don't know how they did it. I
don't have enough information to tell them. They
must have brought them in there and said, look,
these things grow fast. And somebody tried them.
Well, there were experimental plantings down in
the Siki State Forest. Yes, in 1926 those first
plantings were made. And I've seen pictures, and
they grew very fast. I've got them in my yard. They
grow fast. I have no doubt about it. They shouldn't
be planted here. You're abusing nature when you
plant a pine tree here. I know. Well, all the roots
are on top of the ground. One of these days it's
going to fall on the house. Okay. It'll get even
with me.
But evidently the things caught on. Yeah, it is.
And they're getting away from Slash Pie now
because it's, oh, this is a technical aspect.
Yeah, well, it was an interest and it caught on.
Okay. Do you have any other questions? One, no, I
don't have a whole lot. If that's what you saw,
well, yeah, one more, one quick one. What was the
South Central Interstate Forest Fire Protection
Compact? Well, that was an arrangement whereby we
could
call on adjoining states for assistance because
we had an acute forest fire situation and because
of liabilities
one state agency would be most reluctant to
dispatch anybody to an adjoining state because of
liability in case of injury. And that's why it was
set up, created, so that there would be no
reluctance for Texas men to go into Louisiana or
Arkansas and vice versa for assistance. Did you
all ever do that? Yeah. We used the compact in a few
cases, but Now we have all gotten to the point where
we're large enough so that we can take care of
practically any situation that develops. Did you
set this up? Or were you involved in setting it up? I
was involved in setting it up, yeah. Where did this
come about? Is this jawboning with the other guys
and decided we needed to do it? Well, see there's a
National Association of State Foresters, has
been for a long time. And I first learned about it
because they had what was known as the New England
Compact, The U.S. Forest Service, I think, was
responsible for organizing that compact up there
in the New England states. Well, that was a good
idea, and some of us thought it had application
down there. So we decided to create one here. Do you
remember what date that was set up?
Well, I can merely give you an approximation. The
office would have a record on this. I would say
about...
56, 57, 55 maybe. I don't remember. Okay. I was just
curious about that. One last thing that just
dawned on me and I wanted to ask about the advisory
committee. Was this done in any other states? I
don't think so. So you innovated it? It's an
innovation, I think. Okay. I just wondered where
you were drawing on past experience. Well, you see
in other places there's a Arkansas, for example,
has a forestry commission where industry is
represented on this commission. They have a
similar situation in Louisiana or did. Oh, I see.
Okay, okay. So that's, yeah, that's very nice.
That's a good point. Okay, so it gets industry back
into the picture again that way without the
commission. Right. Marvelous. In these meetings
that you have with the advisory committee, Did
they tell you what they wanted? Sometimes. I
wouldn't say that it was particularly
revolutionary, but it did this. It established
the fact that the Texas Forest Service was
interested in establishing communication with
industry. Because I had gotten a complaint from
one of the lumbermen, well, we don't know what the
Texas Forest Service is doing. And so you could sit
down and say, this, fellas, is what we can do, or
this is what we can do for you? Yeah. This is what we
can't do? Yeah. Also, this was a means of
mobilizing some legislative input. I don't know
if you... A form of lobbying, you can say.
Certainly, because these men had their
legislators, didn't they? Sure. You've got a big
business going. And I'm sure this was a big help in
getting any programs through that you wanted, or
your budget especially. Don't overlook the fact
also that simultaneously with my coming here, the
Texas forest industry had a representative on the
board of directors in the form of Al Cudlip. Yes,
that's in this. And I think this is some important
point I've got to include in this, is that when
Cudlip came, it almost seems like... You were
lucky of coming at the right time. Yeah, right. I
got a break there. I have no reluctance in
admitting that. Suddenly that somebody was
interested in you doing well. He thought he was
going to have more influence directly on the Texas
Forest Service than he ever did because Gib
Dilchrist disillusioned him in a hurry on that
point. Did he get rid of Gib? Oh, no. He didn't help
to get rid of Gib? No, I don't think so. Later on they
got together all right. But Al recognized that he
shouldn't be messing directly with the Texas
Forest Service. He withdrew. I think Gibb merely
told him how the cow ate the cabbage and that's all
that was to it. I can see that. Did they leave you
alone? Did the university or the system leave you
alone? Sure did. Is there not a good thing and a bad
thing in that? It had its strengths. It's nice not
to be bothered. Yeah. I say this, it may sound like
boasting, but it isn't really.
In the presence of other people, D.W. Williams
said several times, the best thing that I ever did
was leave Al alone. Had he left the others alone?
No. He had not? One reason was he didn't know a damn
thing about Forrester. And he wasn't much
interested in learning. He didn't much care. He's
an agriculturalist. He's what? He was an
agriculturalist. Well, he was more of a stock man.
Well, still, that's agriculture. Yeah. And I'm
not sure agriculture has any real understanding
of forestry. No, it doesn't. You know, Dean
Shepardson, when he was here, he didn't want to
have a darn thing to do with forestry. That's good
and bad. Well, it is bad because had he created a
Department of Forestry here in the College of
Agriculture, we wouldn't be in the situation we
are today where the Forest Science Department is
just sort of limping along. It's just sort of
tolerated. Because had that department been set
up here, the one over at Stephen F. Austin would not
have been established. And I attribute that all to
Charlie Shepardson's indifference. It's
amazing. EJ Kyle promised the legislature that if
we got a state forester, we'd have a department of
forestry. Well, that was never created. And he
never did it. Did you help create the one hand? No.
You didn't have anything to do with it? I more or
less dragged my feet on it. Yes, I said I thought it
would be a good idea. And I dragged my feet on it
because I had a divided opinion on it. In the first
place, this is where it belonged. In the second
place... there was this department in existence
over at Stephen F. Austin. It had a running start.
Furthermore, it was over there in a forestry
environment. And they still get that flack here
from students. Well, since we can't take any field
trips and we don't have to pay for it to get over into
the forestry area, well, we're sort of marooned
here.
Yeah, I just wondered if you had anything to do with
the creation of that thing. No, I didn't. I
remember this matter was discussed on occasion
within the group that D.W. Williams would
sometimes get together. When you left, did you
have any input into who your successor would be?
Well, I'll put it this way. I made a couple of
recommendations. Okay. But I... Yes, I had some
input. But you were not allowed to hand-pick your
six-pack? No, no, no, no. Was Siki allowed to
hand-pick white, I wonder? I have no idea. Okay, I
was just curious about that. Something told me he
could have done that because... I had this feeling
that the Forest Service, I don't know about now, I
don't know a whole lot about what's going on right
now, was run so much as an independent agency. It
was, I think. A&M said, that's nice, don't bother
us, we won't bother you. Of course, they didn't get
any money out of it. A little. Well, not a whole lot,
but
it's an interesting setup. It's a very
interesting setup. Now, one more thing you asked
me. What would I like to take credit for while I was
here? Yeah. Putting some order in it and
initiating this tree improvement work, which has
a damn good record. And this fellow Zobel that I
brought in here, he has become... WORLD
AUTHORITY. HE DIDN'T STAY HERE BECAUSE HE
COULDN'T ATTRACT GRADUATE STUDENTS BECAUSE IT
WASN'T THE FOREST SCIENCE DEPARTMENT. WELL, THE
OTHER THING IS THAT I WAS RESPONSIBLE FOR PUTTING
IN THIS NURSERY THAT WAS LOCATED WHERE IT WAS
DURING THE PERIOD WHEN The Department of
Agriculture financed the establishment of
nurseries to reforest land that had been thrown
out of production because of contraction of
agricultural commodity production. Is this the
Magnolia? That's right. Later became the
Magnolia Springs.
Yeah, this is a nursery. But this was later
converted into a seed orchard, Magnolia Springs
Seed Orchard. It's all a big seed orchard now. Who
was Charlie Heitman? Do you recall? No. Okay. I'm
just curious. I happened to find an extra one of
those in my files.
I have the chancellor's office files from that
period. There's just not much in there. I wouldn't
think so. There's not.
I appreciate this interview. You've given me much
more than I can ever need. Have I given you
everything? Oh, I'll probably think of something
later, but I can't imagine more than...